Add documentation for LeaderWorkerSet. (#4283)
kubernetes-sigs/kueue: site/content/en/docs/tasks/run/leaderworkerset.md

---
title: "Run LeaderWorkerSet"
linkTitle: "LeaderWorkerSet"
date: 2025-02-17
weight: 6
description: >
   Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a Kueue-managed workload for each group.
---

This page shows how to leverage Kueue's scheduling and resource management

> capabilities when running LeaderWorkerSet.

Reviewer: Add a link to the project.

Author: Done

> We demonstrate how to support scheduling LeaderWorkerSet in Kueue based on the
> [Plain Pod Group](https://kueue.sigs.k8s.io/docs/tasks/run/plain_pods/) integration,
> where LeaderWorkerSet is represented as a separate, independent workload for each
> group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We demonstrate how to support scheduling LeaderWorkerSets where a group of Pods constitutes
a unit of admission represented by a Workload. This allows to scale-up and down LeaderWorkerSets
group by group.

This integration is based on the [Plain Pod Group](https://kueue.sigs.k8s.io/docs/tasks/run/plain_pods/) integration.
```

> This guide is for [serving users](/docs/tasks#serving-user) that have a basic understanding of Kueue.

Reviewer: We should probably add it here to the list for serving workloads: https://kueue.sigs.k8s.io/docs/tasks/.

Author: Done

   to learn how to enable and configure the `v1/pod` integration.

3. Check [Administer cluster quotas](/docs/tasks/manage/administer_cluster_quotas) for details on the initial Kueue setup.

## Running a LeaderWorkerSet admitted by Kueue

When running a LeaderWorkerSet on Kueue, take into consideration the following aspects:

### a. Queue selection

The target [local queue](/docs/concepts/local_queue) should be specified in the `metadata.labels` section of the LeaderWorkerSet configuration.

```yaml
metadata:
   labels:
      kueue.x-k8s.io/queue-name: user-queue
```

### b. Configure the resource needs
The resource needs of the workload can be configured in the `spec.template.spec.containers`.

```yaml
spec:
   leaderWorkerTemplate:
      leaderTemplate:
         spec:
            containers:
               - resources:
                    requests:
                       cpu: "100m"
      workerTemplate:
         spec:
            containers:
               - resources:
                    requests:
                       cpu: "100m"
```

### c. Scaling

You can perform scale up or scale down operations on a LeaderWorkerSet.

```yaml
spec:
  replicas: 2
```

> During these operations, all Pods are recreated and remain suspended until their corresponding workload 
> is admitted independently for each group..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The unit of scaling is a LWS group. By changing the number of `replicas` in the LWS you can create
or delete entire groups of Pods. As a result of scale up the newly created group of Pods is
suspended by a scheduling gate, until the corresponding Workload is admitted.
```
Proposal, in the current for it is not clear to me, the pods aren't recreated for scale down? They are just deleted.

---
title: "Run LeaderWorkerSet"
linkTitle: "LeaderWorkerSet"
date: 2025-02-17
weight: 6
description: >

>    Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a Kueue-managed workload for each group.

Reviewer: Right, maybe "Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a set of Kueue-managed Workloads corresponding to different
Pod groups in Leader worker Set.". And we link the "Pod groups in Leader Worker Set" as this concept it described there: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/lws

>    Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a Kueue-managed workload for each group.

Reviewer: The thing is that in this integration Kueue creates multiple workloads, one per each LWS group. 

I'm ok to treat "workload" in a more abstract sense, but some may read it as API Workload, So maybe saying "Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a Kueue-managed workload" could be misleading to those. So, I was thinking about phasing which eliminates this potential ambiguity. WDYT?

>    Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a Kueue-managed workload for each group.

Reviewer 2: > I'm ok to treat "workload" in a more abstract sense, but some may read it as API Workload, So maybe saying "Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a Kueue-managed workload" could be misleading to those. So, I was thinking about phasing which eliminates this potential ambiguity. WDYT?

I think your point is technically correct. However, this is for serving users documentation. I think serving users do not want / need to consider internal Workload API. So, I would recommend to clear the actual mechanism in concept page. I guess that we can refine https://kueue.sigs.k8s.io/docs/concepts/workload/.

>    Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a Kueue-managed workload for each group.

Reviewer: > I think serving users do not want / need to consider internal Workload API.

+1, just wanted to clarify it case there was a confusion.

> I guess that we can refine https://kueue.sigs.k8s.io/docs/concepts/workload/.

Right, we can clarify that user workload <> Workload API. Also, most of the docs still says "Job" where in fact we mean workload. Since the introduction of serving workloads we no longer only support "jobs". I think both things would deserve some sort of a note in the docs.

>    Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a Kueue-managed workload for each group.

Reviewer: So, I would propose to open issue for docs to:
- change Jobs to Workload and add a note that historically Kueue was for Jobs but since serving workloads the concept is more general
- also add a note that Workload in the text means user's submitted computation (either batch or serving). When we mean about Workload object created internally by Kueue we will refine all occurrences to say "Workload API". 

WDYT?

>    Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a Kueue-managed workload for each group.

Reviewer 2: > > I guess that we can refine https://kueue.sigs.k8s.io/docs/concepts/workload/.
> 
> Right, we can clarify that user workload <> Workload API. Also, most of the docs still says "Job" where in fact we mean workload. Since the introduction of serving workloads we no longer only support "jobs". I think both things would deserve some sort of a note in the docs.

Good point. I think we want to revisit "What is 'Job' in Kueue," and "What is corresponding Job and Workload" (previously Job:Workload=1:1, but now it is slightly incorrect). And then refine the concept page.

>    Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a Kueue-managed workload for each group.

Reviewer 2: > > I think serving users do not want / need to consider internal Workload API.
> 
> +1, just wanted to clarify it case there was a confusion.

I can understand your motivation very well :)

>    Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a Kueue-managed workload for each group.

Reviewer: Ok, I will open the issue, for now I'm ok with your suggestions to the PR.

>    Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a Kueue-managed workload for each group.

Reviewer 2: > Ok, I will open the issue, for now I'm ok with your suggestions to the PR.

SGTM, thank you for understanding my opinion.

>    Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a Kueue-managed workload for each group.

Reviewer: Opened: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/issues/4286/. PTAL.

>    Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a Kueue-managed workload for each group.

Reviewer 2: Thanks!

>    Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a Kueue-managed workload for each group.

Reviewer 2: This is no addressed, yet

>    Run a LeaderWorkerSet as a Kueue-managed workload for each group.

Author: Done
